Beam Cannon [WORK IN PROGRESS]
This mod adds a new tool: Beam Cannon. It uses fuel to shoot a laser that destroys blocks and kills entities on its way.
It accepts two types of fuel: Biofuel and Deadly fuel (compatible with jetpack mod).
Press LMB to shoot a laser, RMB to switch selected fuel type, shift+RMB to open Beam Cannon upgrades inventory.
Put upgrades into a beamcannon to modify its characteristics, such as entity damage, digging speed, digging area or range.
Full list of added items and its recipes:
Biofuel: 1 Klein Bottle, 3 Leafs, 1 Wood
Deadly fuel: 1 Klein Bottle, 1 Deadly ore
Deadly Casing: 4 Deadly Bars
Iron Plate: 3 Iron Bars
Solenoid Wire: 2 Solenoid Bars
Gyroscope: 2 Iron Bars, 1 Compass
Beam Concentrator: 1 Iron Plate, 1 of each type of flawless lens
Beam Cannon: 1 Beam Concentrator, 2 Deadly Casing, 2 Iron Plate, 3 Solenoid Wire
4D Optics Upgrade: 2 Iron Plate, 1 4D Glasses - Adds a 4D glasses effect when holding a Beam Cannon
Gyroscope Upgrade: 2 Iron Plate, 1 Gyroscope - Adds a compass effect when holding a Beam Cannon
Area Upgrade: 2 Iron Plate, 1 Ultrahammer - Increases mining area, significantly decreases digging power
Concentrator Upgrade: 2 Iron Plate, 1 Beam Concentrator - Increases range, slightly decreases damage and digging power
Coils Upgrade: 2 Iron Plate, 2 Solenoid Wire - Increases damage and fuel usage, slightly decreases range
Filtration Upgrade: 2 Iron Plate, 20 Sand, 5 Klein Bottle - Decreases fuel usage
Matter Disassembler Upgrade: 2 Iron Plate, 1 Deadly Pick - Significantly increases digging power and fuel usage, slightly decreases damage
Magnet Upgrade: 2 Iron Plate, 1 Solenoid Collector - All mined blocks are automatically gathered

Cannot apply more than 9 upgrades to a Beam Cannon. Optics and gyroscope upgrades can only be applied once. Upgrades can only be crafed in the Beam Cannon upgrades inventory. 
Take a lens in one hand, rock into another, and press RMB to to chip the excess parts of the lens and make it flawless. You might accidentally break a couple lenses in the process.